Eric why did you send her away you
desired her and she was yours who's
exactly as you pleased why risk
offending the Shah for the sake of a
girl who was only a slave he gave a
great cry of rage lifted the table in
front of him and threw it across the
room with the force that splintered the
legs asunder from the marble top only a
slave only an animal he roared you
asinine Persian dolt
get out of my way quickly before I
forget all that I owe you is this
another of your quaint
and delightful customs he demanded
furiously as no one in this godforsaken
Court heard of a decent period of
mourning
I raised my shoulders helpless the Shahs
sister is his personal property to be
disposed of as he sees fit
Eric looked at me and credulous Lee are
you telling me the girl is transferable
like what the Grand Vizier is signet
ring that whoever takes one must take
the other I say it is after the custom
in such matters oh I see
he said contemptuously legalized rape is
the done thing here is it any man may
force himself upon a woman and say it is
the custom my god what a country and he
turned away with such fierce disgust
that I felt faintly ashamed of my own
race she is poor and has children to
feed I am able to pay the price she asks
without hardship why should I stand here
and haggle with her like a miser she
expects it Eric I tell you it is the
custom
[__] your customs
[Music]
there is something intrinsic in human
nature that when someone says this thing
belongs to us not you and no you can't
have it the excluded group loses their
[__] whether they actually would have
wanted the thing or not like I didn't
want to go to Shelly's birthday party I
don't even like Shelly but I find out
that I'm not invited oh that [__]
this attitude dominates discussions of
cultural appropriation in particular
where one group says no this thing
belongs to us and actually has deep
cultural and religious significance that
you clearly do not understand nor do you
care to so maybe don't wear a feather
headdress as part of your lingerie line
like maybe the excluded group has zero
interest in wearing a feather headdress
with a lingerie line but they're kind of
offended at the idea that someone said
you can't why can't I do sexy feather
headdress I didn't steal your land or
violate countless treaties or give you
diseases to it you had no natural
immunity I personally was not there and
no I wasn't going to wear a sexy feather
headdress but I should be able to
without being called problematic but
this attitude is nothing new let us go
back to the mid 19th century when travel
riding was all the rage and there was
particular interest in the Orient and I
don't mean that Orient although that was
certainly also a thing but in this case
Egypt the Ottoman Empire and Persia it
is from male European travelers to the
Ottoman Empire that Europe was
introduced to the idea of the harem but
only the idea because men weren't
allowed into harem see that's kind of
the whole point only women and male
relatives are allowed into hermas them's
the rules
and of course our 19th century Eurotrash
did not like that why won't you let me
into your club filled with slave ladies
wearing those sexy belly dancer outfits
and you know those finger symbol
thingies and those badass eunuchs with
their sabers why can I not have
thing and with this desire to be
included in a space in which they were
not allowed their presumptions about the
culture they were visiting combined with
this forbidden space made their
imaginations run wild if we aren't
allowed in there it must be because it's
sexy licentiousness
sexy slave babes who don't really want
it but also kinda want it these are some
early mainstream European examples of
what Columbia University professor of
literature Eduard Sayid defined as
Orientalism in his 1978 book Orientalism
European depictions of the Middle East
date as far back as the medieval period
the Crusades a thing that happened but
the rise of what we'll call orientalist
media really begins in the 18th century
as major European world powers go into
war with the Ottoman Empire operas like
Mozart's abduction from the seraglio
travelogues like Lady Elizabeth Cravens
a journey through Crimea to
Constantinople and Lord Byron's poetry /
personal antics were all popular
proliferators of this concept of the
eastern other but where in 19th century
Orientalism really took off in the
visual and language arts coincided with
Napoleon's failed attempts to invade
Syria and Egypt and the British Empire's
efforts to destabilize the Ottoman
Empire at the beginning of the 19th
century as both world powers sought to
colonize these areas demand back home
created an explosion of arts centered
around the Middle East and Central Asia
often by artists who had never actually
been to said territories but you know
they had like a friend who knew someone
whose cousin had done like one of those
Nile cruises and as a result we got art
that looks something like this
[Music]
slave babes but for your average Jack
and Jacques back in mothers England and
France this emerging visual culture
dominated perceptions of these countries
no paintings like this were not based in
reality
yikes but Victorian Europeans thought
that they were it's like if aliens tried
to make art depicting what being an
American in 2019 is like but only having
like Nickelback as a reference but you
know they've never actually seen
Nickelback they've only like heard about
them second or third hand and maybe
they've seen like the photograph meme
[Music]
like that eventually travel riding by
European women became a thing and tried
to clear up this incorrect assessment of
what harem life was like because being
women they were allowed into harems it
turns out harem life is actually pretty
boring and no they don't dress like that
and no that's not what an odalisque is
Susan K I'm not saying it was a good
social order I'm just saying it was
nothing like the sexy licensure slave
babes that these dudes imagined it to be
but the damage was done and to this day
when you hear the word harem in the
Occident it conjures up a very specific
very nineteenth-century image sexualized
licences and above all inaccurate but
who cares
it's just media it's just writing it's
just a painting it doesn't have any
real-world consequences and besides they
do it to us to watch any movie designed
for non-american audiences that features
an American character and it's like Oh
[Music]
so that's what that's like and of course
that is true but it is completely
disingenuous to say that Orientalist
depictions of the Middle East had no
real-world consequences in terms of real
world politics categorically it did just
within the last year German far-right
and totally not neo-nazi group AFD
anglicized as alternative for Germany
used one of the more notorious story
Angelus paintings Jean Leon Jerome's the
slave market as part of a propaganda
campaign against Syrian refugees being
allowed entry into Germany but other
less overt examples pervade mainstream
media as well 300 is hilarious
[Music]
but kind of also an insidious depiction
of a war between the East and the West
so much and more recently we have the
post 9/11 gritty realism trend of films
set in the Middle East but we're not
getting into that today so we got to
colonize the [__] I guess this
is the rationale behind colonization in
general like yeah sure we want their
stuff but really we're doing them a
favor by colonizing them I mean look at
them it's further I'm good y'all need
Jesus and they've got this crescent moon
us not a cross and they've got this Club
they won't let us into and I don't like
it and while neither Egypt the Ottoman
Empire nor Persia were ever technically
colonies some of their stuff was and
their historical trajectories were all
deeply impacted by the effects of
colonialism the consequences of which
want us to this day now I know what
you're thinking we're like 10 minutes
into this video and you're like this is
not what I was promised by the thumbnail
I was promised a tease melodramatic rock
opera and I'm getting to that
but the backdrop of Orientalism is
important to this discussion if you've
never read Gaston Leroux's 1910 novel
The Phantom of the Opera you probably
don't know where I'm going with this but
if you have read it you totally know
where I'm going with this enter the
Persian one of the main characters in
Gaston Leroux's Phantom of the Opera a
fan favorite a character so central to
the narrative that basically the entire
second half is told from his point of
view and a character that is either
whitewashed altered or omitted entirely
from the vast majority of the hundreds
of adaptations of Phantom of the Opera
like nearly all of them like at least 95
percent
[Music]
and on the rare occasion when he's not
cut out we get you asinine Persian don't
the one well-known ish adaptation or in
this case retailing that does feature
the Persian in any role of prominence is
Susan kaise 1990 novel titled only
phantom which falls squarely into the
worst flavors of 1980s ayatollah ass
Ahola
entire audience sentiment combined with
good old-fashioned nineteenth-century
Orientalism which legalized rape is the
done thing here is it any man may force
himself upon a woman and say it is the
custom this book is also extremely
popular with the fandom and incidentally
is not available on audible and there
was a time when phantom fandom had no
goddamn sense of humor and you are not
allowed to criticize this book but it's
2020 phantom shitposting is finally a
thing and i am the god but we'll get to
that book first let's take a look at the
source material who is this persian what
is his function within the novel and why
is he omitted from nearly every single
one of these [__] million adaptations of
phantom of the opera' Gaston Leroux's
novel isn't all that dissimilar from
either the 1925 Lon Chaney movie or
Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical or even
its terrible film adaptation directed by
Joel Schumacher
[Music]
the key difference is the novel was
originally published in serial form and
framed more as a mystery instead of a
tragic romance with new increments of
the story introduced each week who is
doing the bad thing could it be the
manager could it be the ratcatcher could
it be the V Count de Xiang Yi's older
brother Philippe could it be this shady
ethnic in the Astrakhan cap that's
always running around the Opera or could
it be the skull-faced insel who lives in
the basement who's to say I'm going to
summarize the original novel and yes it
does spoil the whole thing so spoilers
for Phantom of the Opera our story
begins when the prima donna la quwata
falls ill and is replaced by this young
ingenue no one's ever heard of named
Christine daa a and she brings the
house down with how amazing she is
during her performance she is recognized
by her childhood friend the boy V comb
trowel de Chagny and he goes to her
dressing room to say hey good job but he
overhears her talking to this guy who
claims to be your voice teacher and
being a boy he's like Oh [__] in the
meanwhile there's all these mysterious
goings on someone calling themselves the
opera ghost is extorting the new
managers some guy turns up dead with the
noose around his neck
there's the shady brown fellow poking
around the Opera all the time and amidst
it all Christine just disappears and of
course the boys like [__] a couple weeks
later there's a masquerade and hey she's
back and she pulls Raoul aside and tells
him where she's been and of course the
victim-blaming boy is like slime and
she's like no what do I have to explain
to you that I was kidnapped by a
skull-faced and still named Eric who
well admittedly he told me he'd let me
go as long as I did never touch his mask
and you remember that thing I said
earlier about human nature where someone
says you can't have the thing or you
can't see the thing and under normal
circumstances you wouldn't have really
cared but you know someone said you
can't like see anyway she took off his
mask he loses his [__] and he says you
can never leave my lair and she's like
no you look great
basically she pulls that act off long
enough for Eric to let her out of the
basement so she can tell the
victim-blaming [__] boy oh please God
help me and he's like okay how about we
leave together
after your next big performance so after
the next big performance Christine just
disappears right off the stage like
right in the middle of the stage and if
we're watching the musical this would be
the track down this murderer portion
that leads into the final layer scene
but we're only about halfway through the
book enter the Persian he's never given
a name because the framing device is
LaRue telling this story like he's a
journalist presenting it almost like
found-footage like it really happened
and since in universe the Persian isn't
on great terms with you know the Shah
he's trying to protect this guy's
identity in terms of Gilded Age
literature at which LaRue's original
novel falls right at the tail end the
Persian is an interesting character
because in most regards he does not fall
within late-victorian orientalist tropes
like the tragic backstory stuff totally
does when the narrative goes back to
Erik's time in Persia when they first
got to know each other it definitely
does the who those exotic Orient's they
love their bloodsport
the Royals watch murder just for fun
just like the Romans so barbaric see
Erik moved to Persia to be like a circus
performer slash architect and while he
was here he made all this amazing
architecture for the Shah this was also
where he learned to do murder real good
that's the Punjab Allah so that is very
clumsily handled in the musical land
even more clumsily in the film somehow
it's a sneaky foreign way to kill he
instigates you and you never see it
coming
and the Shah loved watching Erik do this
he thought it was great well anyway the
Shah liked Erik but Erik knew too much
so he has to die I guess and the Persian
who has a soft spot for Erik helped him
escape and basically covered for him the
Shah suspected the Persian did this but
lacking proof and since the Persian is
like his fifth cousin or something
banished him from court instead of
killing him and he also gave him a nice
pension and so in his new life in Paris
the Persian basically spends all his
time keeping an eye on Erik and making
sure he didn't do too many murders and
Erik pays him back by not murdering him
when he happens to venture too close to
his underground lair so LaRue's
depiction of Persia in the 1850s when
Erik in the Persian met fell right into
that Orientalist trope of barbaric
exotic and feminine Orient but the
character himself is kind of ahead of
his time in that in a narrative that
centers mostly white people he
has a character at all he isn't exotic
eyes except insofar as everyone thinks
he's kind of shady before they get to
know him
he isn't barbaric he doesn't shroud
himself in mysticism and his other Ness
is not at all used to set him apart from
the rest of the characters he is
arguably the most well-rounded character
in the book and easily the most likeable
and he doesn't die
so basically Raoul goes into the
basement to rescue Christine but gets
circumvented by the persian who's like
hey dude you are going to die in like
half a second if I don't help you
Raoul understandably suspicious is like
who are you how do you know all this and
the Persian is like look Eric and I
basically went to college together he
did me a solid and I did him a solid but
I also got booted out of Persia because
of this [__] so now I'm wasting my
golden years cleaning up his messes they
make it all the way down to Eric's house
by the lake under the Opera but then
oops accidentally end up in the torture
chamber he has in his house for some
reason so that's ok sure Eric doesn't
even notice that they're there at first
because he's too busy Christine and
ultimatum that she either has to marry
him or he's going to blow up the Opera
House she finds out the Persian and Raul
are in there and and in short order Eric
does too and he turns the torture
chamber on it's basically a sauna
eventually Christine is like okay okay
I'll marry you just please let these
guys go and Eric is like okay and he
does and the Persian wakes up in his
home like nothing had happened so by
this point the Persian is like you know
what I have covered for this [__] for
way too long I don't care what I owe him
I have paid my debt to his ass I am
going to the police and I'm telling them
everything and just as he's about to do
that knock knock guess who's at the door
it's Eric and he plops down on the
Persians Shay's launch and he's like hey
bud
I'm sorry about all that
I let her go as far as I know she's
going to elope with Raul are we cool and
the Persian is like dude when Christine
agrees to marry him Eric and his
infinite crazy assumes that she is
totally playing him and has every
intention of killing herself rather than
being his wife because he is just the
world she is but as in the musical she
kisses him
he realizes like holy [__] she's
actually willing to go through with this
it is at this point that he concedes to
himself how horrible he's been and is so
overcome with emotion that he lets her
go gives him his blessing and makes her
promise that she'll come back and bury
him once he dies of all this love he's
feeling which given that we've still got
some Victorian vapors going on should be
in a couple weeks or so Eric relates all
this to the Persian who relates it to
the narrator LaRue Eric presumably does
dive Christine presumably does come back
to bury him and the Persian dies an old
man safe and happy in his home in Paris
the end so with regard to the most
famous phantom adaptation in terms of
pure plot utility you probably recognize
the character of the Persian in the
character of madame giri she kind of
floats around warns people about stuff
mr. Lefebvre paid him 20,000 francs a
month perhaps you could afford more and
then when the time comes she's the one
who shows Raul how to get down to the
lair and how to protect himself against
the Punjab less so he'll in the film
version she's even involved in the
tragic backstory and helps him escape
the thing both traits from the ocean in
the original novel
I'm not saying Andrew Lloyd Webber is
bad for replacing the Persian with a
white woman he's bad for other reasons
but little known fact about Andrew Lloyd
Webber's Phantom of the Opera is that
the original plan was not to write an
original musical but to produce Ken
Hills 1976 adaptation of Phantom of the
Opera which Hughes extremely close to
LaRue's book and does feature the
Persian as a major supporting character
in fairness this musical is just really
genuinely terrible and I can't say they
made the wrong choice by deciding to
ghost on killing Hill and then just
writing their own for these to stay
secret The Phantom had to suffer the
inevitable Eastern consequences you
don't mean brutes but it must needs be
remarked but one of the major changes
that they made from the Ken hill musical
itself the inspiration for the current
Broadway behemoth is that it cuts out
the Persian the closest thing that could
be considered a reference either to the
character or Erik's time in Persia is
this here monkey which I mean I've seen
this show like 400 times and I still
don't know what they were going for with
the monkey and this falls within the
trend of adaptations not only cutting
the character out but leaving in a
replacement role basically considering
that some character performing the
person's role in the story at least if
you keep it as close to the original
novel as Andrew Lloyd Webber did is
necessary for the plot as long as
they're white this began with the first
big adaptation Carl lammles 1925 feature
film The Phantom of the Opera starring
Lon Chaney the Persian is in this movie
he's got his Astrakhan cap and
everything only he's not actually here
this is not a Persian at all but a
French white police inspector named lit
- who's pretending to be Persian for
reasons and he's been tracking that
phantom for months in disguise and now
he's found him but instead of involving
the police for whom he works instead he
just takes Raoul for some reason you
could probably guess why yeah Taylor's
oldest film the earlier cuts of the film
originally hewed way closer to the novel
that Astrakhan cap is there because in
the original cut LeDoux was the Persian
even his casting choice is somewhat
telling ladoos actor Arthur Edmond kuru
was actually born in Armenia and was a
character actor known for playing shady
foreigners such that he rarely got to
play a good guy as he does in this movie
and it also had the novel's ending with
Erik letting Christine go instead of
being eaten alive by an angry mob so
they shot it and then they changed it
and the Persian was a secret white the
whole time and that trend did not exist
in a vacuum either this follows
Paramount's 1921 hit the Sheik
starring Rudolph Valentino and which
Valentino chic is portrayed differently
but it being a romantic comedy and that
the eponymous she gets the girl in the
end don't worry we find out that he was
actually a secret white the whole time
just like Esmerelda I should do a video
about characters of color and media who
are like reveal to be secretly white the
whole time we can call it Dolezal now
this is before the Hays Code so it
wasn't yet mandated that the bad man
must be punished on screen but the
studio thought that should be the case
because early audiences didn't like the
ending we cannot have the bad man what
does the murders get a sympathetic
tragic ending and moreover we cannot
have an ethnic be both a central
character and heroic and live the 1943
version has not one but two roles who
vie for Christine's affections yes what
is it
Lucy one is a cop and the other likes to
play detective so they team up to rescue
Christine I mean they don't really have
a history with the Phantom but they kind
of serve the purpose of expediting the
third act along to its conclusion also
this movie kind of owns because it ends
with Christine [__] off without
either of them like by in yes phantom on
ice The Phantom has like a whole chorus
of acolytes slash groupies that exist I
feel like we don't talk enough about the
fact that there was like this whole era
of human history where thing on ice was
so ubiquitous it was parodied in an
episode of Rugrats you have come back to
me
speaking of the 90s possibly the most
early 90s thing ever set to film phantom
of the mall yes a real movie wherein the
phantom Eric does not tortured Lee play
the organ in his basement he tortured
Lee lifts he is not an angel of music he
is an angel of roundhouse kicks and in
this version our Persian is it's Pauly
Shore I promise not spitting you yoghurt
the 1990 movie starring Charles dance
yes that Charles dance our Persian
replacement is Eric's dad played by Burt
Lancaster who hit him as away as a baby
and raised him to be a Phantom of the
Opera
that punches plastic deer
oh yeah let's watch that again in 1998
Italian filmmaker Dario Argento directed
his own adaptation and the sort of
romantic analog between its phantom and
persian replacement and in this one the
Phantom is a tortured rapist who is not
deformed and our Persian surrogate is a
bunch of rats friendly friendly rats
this for the record is the worst
adaptation of Phantom it's the worst one
it's bad but of course the most well
known replacement is madame giri in the
Andrew Lloyd Webber adaptation who
serves the purpose of filling in the
Phantom's backstory after seeing him on
his world freak tour years prior that
was I shall never forget him a man
locked in a cage but being too
[__] to do anything else after
ratting him out to the gilded youth he
lives across the lake Monsieur this is
as far as I dare go and all of this is
to say nothing about adaptations that
change their source material so much
that there isn't really a Persian
surrogate at all like the 1962 Hammer
horror film starring Herbert LOM or the
only good phantom of the opera' movie
Brian De Palma's 1974 film phantom of
the paradise reel from reel reel
of course the Persian is not absent from
100% of adaptations even if he is absent
from all of the ones you've ever heard
of there was a 1988 animated movie
that's one of those like classic
literature for kids things from the 80s
that had a budget of lake 2 you can find
the house by the river and he's also in
the terrible 1991 musical that was
released on video and sold in all of the
stores and poor fools kept buying it
thinking it was the Android Weber
musical and then being horribly
disappointed when they got home you may
follow me into the darkness if you like
dad Oh God because for the most part the
trend with this character despite being
extremely well liked by fans has been
erasure because I guess we just don't
know what to do with them but when it's
not a racer are you telling me
the girl is transferable like with the
Grand Vizier signet ring that whoever
takes one must take the other I say it
is after the custom in such matters oh I
see
he said contemptuously legalized rape is
the done thing here is it any man may
force himself upon a woman and say it is
the custom well then we circle back to
Orientalism this is all a prelude to
discuss what is debatably the most
memorable take on the character outside
of the original novel Susan Kay's
phantom and how much it bites hard look
at this cover yeah this is a reprint the
original was much more like 90s romance
novel you try being the only girl in the
Phantom forums who hated this book at
anyway I'm just explaining myself
because a lot of phantom fans really
like this book and it really changed a
lot of the foundations of the fandom
itself most fans even called the Persian
by the name Susan K gave him in the book
nadir Khan so phantom is basically a 600
page novel about the life of the Phantom
split into six different points of view
nadir is the point of view character for
Erick's 20s which she set squarely in
Iran than Persia starting in the year
1850 so let's take a look at Persia in
1850 necessary Aldens Shah was the
actual real-life Shah newly and his
reign and this book paints him as an
ineffectual bloodthirsty backwards
tyrant well you know Harun who didn't
have great luck with Shahs for the last
200 ish years of them but on the real
nasir al-din shah was a mixed
personality whose reign is marked by the
constant Sterman drawn about modernizing
Persia by Western standards and an
absolute fairness the Shah of Persia at
the time was what academic historians
describe as a [__] weirdo during
research for this we learned about a
game he'd play with his wives and
children called lights out or he'd just
like turn the lights off and everyone in
the room would just have to beat the
[__] out of each other in total darkness
monarchs but he didn't like jerk-off
using the blood of virgins and
assassinate half of his court as he does
in this book and this is another way
that the book really influenced the
fandom by playing into these ugly
nineteenth-century Orientalist tropes we
have to make Erik's backstory all harsh
and tragic and part of that is painting
Persia as this cutthroat awful place
with stuff like corruption and
executions and slavery so much slavery
which was nothing like the u.s. in the
1850s LaRue's original novel frames Erik
against a world that is horrible that
everywhere he went molded him into the
nightmare fuck-boy he turned into it is
the same sort of like Ender's Game logic
where it's like I know you have a kind
and gentle heart but you're just so good
at murder in a better world or hell if
he had just been normal-looking he would
have been a respectable man in fact that
is how the original novel ends
Leroux lamenting how terrible the world
is to disadvantaged people and positing
that Eric could have been one of the
world's great minds if the world wasn't
so shitty to people with disabilities
which for 1910 is the pretty nuance to
take hell for now it's a nuance to take
Eric looked like a monster so people
treated him like one and he behaved like
one in kind but he was not born a
monster but while Susan Kate has not
dropped that angle the entire Persia
sequence is framed as different from all
of the other locations which are set in
France and Italy it was Persia that
really made him into a monster because
the culture is just that bad so after
all this you might be asking yourself
what the point of this video was was it
really just an elaborate excuse to talk
about Phantom of the Opera for half an
hour and dumped on this book yes but
while we're here I don't mean to imply
that Gaston Leroux was intentionally
trying to write the locust book ever
featuring a non Western character but I
don't think it was unintentional that he
went out of his way to place a Persian
character as basically the moral
backbone of his story in a market that
basically demanded white heroes and
relegated everybody else to stereotype
spectacle or both fundamentally
Orientalist media and the stereotypes it
creates even what we see as benign or
even benevolent are a kind of erasure a
simplified refutation of the realities
of a lot of people but it is a ratio
that serves a socio-political purpose as
well and I think it's interesting that
with this character we effectively had
nothing but erasure all the way up to
the late 1980s and once the Persian was
reintroduced back into phantom fandom
through Kay's novel and a lot of ways it
was a lot more aggressive than the
LaRue's original novel was and fans were
keen to embrace the more Orientalist
tropes effectively replacing erasure
with or int'l ism I was in those forms
twenty years ago too and while I never
liked this book I can't say I did not
uncritically enjoy some of those
Orientalist elements extracted both from
the book and from the original novel and
phantom of the opera' is far far from
the only modern example where this is a
thing this isn't to say you're a bad
person if that angle appealed to you but
rather I would like to encourage you to
critically think about why that angle
appeal to people why do so much of old
Western media be like that why do so
much of it still be like that
and recognize that there are some very
real consequences to Orientalism and
media even from ignorant racists
painting sex slaves in the 19th century
but I also wonder could there be an
adaptation of Phantom of the Opera that
keeps the character of the Persian and
this idea of Erik living in Persia for a
while as a part of his backstory without
incorporating those ugly orientalist
tropes the world has changed a lot in
hundred and ten years since Phantom of
the Opera was published but for all of
its pulp penis and hem fisted Edwardian
melodrama it still keeps getting remade
and re-enters the conversation but the
consistent erasure of one of its main
characters is a testament to how little
the needle has nudged in this one regard
and while we're here at part of the
reason I kept putting off releasing this
video was because of escalating tension
between the u.s. and Iran and given that
this whole episode concerns an Iranian
character I wasn't sure how or even if I
should address that and even now we
still don't know what's going to happen
or how this is going to play out but I
will say this in times of stress there
is a tendency to fall back on narratives
that feel familiar and if we keep seeing
narratives of a certain people being
other de nuf eventually it makes sense
to start conflict with these people even
if there's no benefit to either side in
doing so safe perhaps the political so I
wonder if it is possible to challenge
ourselves to evolve past these
narratives which have already caused so
so much harm but again maybe that's just
human nature and with that now I have to
do my ad read I of course was going to
recommend some version of Phantom of the
Opera but instead I'll recommend the
book that I'm listening to right now
which is Ronin Pharaoh's war on peace
the end of diplomacy and the decline of
American influence hey speaking of Iran
and help motivate you audible is issuing
a challenge to current and new members
finish three audiobooks by March 3rd and
get a $20 Amazon credit the mo was done
with my three $20 here I come finish
three by three 3 and get $20 visit
audible.com slash Lindsey Ellis or Tex
Lindsey ls2 5
500 start listening with a 30-day trial
and choose one audiobook and two audible
originals absolutely free listen on any
device anytime anywhere at home at the
gym on your commute or on your way to
the anti-war protest you also enjoy easy
exchanges for any audiobook you don't
love and an audiobook library you keep
forever even if you cancel or if we go
to war with Iran visit audible.com slash
Lindsay LS our text Lindsay Ellis to 500
500 so get started with your free trial
okey-dokey he's me reading some quotes
about slavery why risk offending the
Shah for the sake of a girl who is only
a slave he gave a great cry of rage
lifted the table in front of him and
threw it across the room with the force
that splintered the legs asunder from
the marble top only a slave only an
animal you asinine Persian dolt he
roared get out of my way quickly read
off with this world
I raised my shoulders helplessly the
Shahs sister is his personal property to
be disposed of as he sees fit Eric
looked at me incredulous Lee are you
telling me the go is transferable while
the Grand Vizier is signaling the
whoever takes one must say they are on
my side it is often the custom in such
matters oh oh I see
legalized right it's just a dumb thing
here is it
he said contemptuously any man my force
himself and incise a custom my god wha
country and he turned away with such
fierce disgust that I felt faintly
ashamed of my own race
[Laughter]
[Music]